---
title: library@habourfront and Singapore in the Rain
author: tuanio
date: 2023-10-24 11:20:00 +/-0084
categories: [share]
tags: [think]
toc: true
comments: true
published: true
---

library@habourfront and Singapore in the Rain

As of today, I have been living in Singapore for 4 months. It's not a long time, but I finally have the time and energy to write a few rambling lines to commemorate the memories.

My story of coming here to work is quite simple. It's a story of supply and demand. I'm not that great, but luckily my boss needed someone and I needed a job. I couldn't find a job in Vietnam, so I went looking for one a little further away. In return, I could have a much newer experience and maybe even change my current life. But luckily, I had the support of everyone, who helped me patiently wait for this opportunity for 6 months before I was able to take my first international flight.

Back then, I had a frog-in-the-well mentality. I was quite arrogant and often felt like I didn't need to try anymore, feeling that was enough. Until I decided to leave here, I immediately met people who were featured in the media, such as Dũng Lại, who started programming and got a PhD at the age of 21, 22, 23, which is the age when they just graduated from university. I immediately had a completely different perspective on life. I realized that I was paying off the days when I didn't try hard enough back then. Those who got their PhDs from a very early age had worked very hard and accumulated a lot of knowledge from their years in high school. So, after many years, it was only natural for them to receive admission letters from top PhD programs in CS/DS (such as NTU and NUS) in Singapore, which makes people like me look on with admiration.

Today, I went to library@habourfront, one of the most beautiful libraries in Singapore. It's very large and has many books, even many seats and desks. However, the special thing about library@habourfront or other libraries in Singapore, even local libraries like the one in Queenstown where I live, is that they are very crowded. There was even a day when I had to run back and forth to 4 or 5 libraries all over Singapore just to find a place to sit and study or work on the weekend. A few times, I walked past a row of tables with people sitting at them, and I could see mathematical formulas. Some people were taking courses, some were working hard to design each figure for their game, and some were training a model and encountered a bug that automatically stopped, ruining their hours of waiting. I suddenly saw a reflection of myself in them, and I saw the image of those very talented people who were studying for their PhDs at the age of 22.

A few times, I also thought about whether I could continue to try and get a PhD scholarship and pursue my academic passion. But then I brushed it off and continued to code, because I knew that the journey there was the most important thing. If I didn't get a PhD scholarship and couldn't study for my PhD at my dream school, I could actually choose another path, but absolutely don't doubt myself. I always say that to myself, because I know that my family, friends, loved ones, and teachers also always hope and always believe that I can do it.

I'm also lucky to have the opportunity to do industry research. Instead of just sitting at home alone reading pure theoretical papers, when I came here, I was able to interact with people with very thick and wide experience. I was also given very difficult tasks to solve tasks that had always been a headache for people there. I admit that I haven't done it yet, but I believe that I am on the way to achieving it. And I believe that everyone is the same. Everyone has a dream that is still unfinished, and everyone is on their own path and gradually fulfilling that dream. I believe in myself and I also believe in everyone I know.
